# ColorMeCalm

My project here is essentially a coloring book for adults! During this incredibly overwhelming and stressful time, I have found myself resorting back to coloring books and drawing to calm my nerves and ease my anxieties. It is a very peaceful act to color in various shapes. This somewhat monotonous act is actually such a healing process. Studies have shown that coloring for both adults and youths has the ability to calm the amygdala, the fear center of the brain. This essentially means coloring can do the same work as mediation because it reduces the restless thoughts. Not only does coloring enable mindfulness and quiet but it can be incredibly satisfying to have a finished product at the end as well. 

Users are encouraged to color all the same numbers the same color – creating a mosaic at the end! As with any coloring endeavor, users are engaged by wanting to finish the artwork. I think it is exciting that they are able to change colors by pressing down different keys as well. By having all the whitespace originally, they are encouraged to color it all in for the aesthetic. While physically the users are creating a picture, internally they are giving themselves time for self-care and time for relaxing. Users are proud of finishing a picture because they know that this time will improve their sleep, focus, and mindfulness. 

Having to adapt to this software was a big jump for me personally. I always find that the coding itself isn’t the most challenging but familiarizing myself with the editor is more demanding. Within my code, I found creating a grid to be challenging – trying to find the right coordinates and distributions! I went through a series of generating all different sorts of grids. I thought it was really cool being able to generate different numbers each time the code it run – ergo generating different pictures! This enables the user to create different mosaics every time they use the software. I enjoyed creating a feature that let the user change their color every time they pressed down a key so that they could find a color that they liked. I think that going forward I would like to create an outline that wasn’t as stiff as using a grid. Maybe have an outline that had flowers or circles.
